Our next topic is multi-party consensus.
Now, the multi-signature feature we just described
is an inherent feature of some block chains including Bitcoin,
but for Ethereum, this feature must be implemented in a smart contract.
There is no built-in way to do it,
you have to implement it through code.
We will distinguish between the inherent multi-signature capability of a block chain and
the implemented version through code as multi-party consensus just to avoid confusion.
The best way to understand
multi-party consensus is to look at this common Hollywood movie scene.
So we all familiar with the missile silo where there are
multiple operators who each have to turn
a key in order to successfully launch the missile.
This is a common feature.
They will also have a card which they break and there's a code that they have to reveal.
So think of multi-party consensus as the analogy of the missile silo and multiple keys.
What you'll want to do is have multiple users with
their own individual private keys essentially
vote to have a particular function executed.
I use the term vote loosely here,
they are essentially authorizing the use of
their private key and allowing the transaction to move forward.
So the basic algorithm that you would use to
implement such a feature encode is to first define M,
which is the number of keys that are required for the transaction to be executed.
You then define N,
which is a number of private keys.
Now in the smart contract,
you'd probably define this indirectly by just having a pool of permitted addresses.
You could do that by perhaps having certain accounts flagged as administrators,
you could also do it by having a fixed array of addresses
which all represent the participants of N,
and you could also have a function that registers and
de-registers such users as the lifecycle of the contract progresses.
Once you have M and N defined,
the next thing you want to do when the function
is called that requires multi-party consensus,
is to initialize the counter.
So the first time it calls,
you start tracking how many of the M have already authorized the transaction.
Of course, it's the first time so it would be zero initially before you set the counter,
and one after you've set the counter.
You then increment the counter for each subsequent call.
Finally, when the counter hits the trigger level,
which is the value of M,
you then execute the code.
So this is essentially what's happening in the multi-signature address,
but we are going to have to do that in encode.
So now that we've got this algorithm,
what we want to do is improve our smart contract.
So we set up an M of N capability for changing the operational status of the contract.
Since that is a feature you want to control,
you don't want one single individual to go and just pause a contract.
You want to be able to have multiple parties be involved in that decision.
Let's enforce that through code.